new storytelling gameplay?

general idea: visualizing the partioned dialogue/social space
between two people (relationship). chaos/randomness of possible things to say vs. determinism and personality. "Social space" : like Vector space or Hilbert Space. Vectors of things to say. Fictitious visualized dialogue space.

each "act" has an island grid with tiles. 
Each turn, the player may choose to flip a tile.
tiles, when turned, reveal a story piece or direction (what happens next).
which tiles are generated are by ruleset, random.
however, certain tiles are "hot" depending on previous tiles flipped.
the player "gambles" the story, but has some control:
there are determined characters on the board, and the same story piece
can play very differently depending on which characters "enacts" the piece (actors).
the game is about figuring out how to advance the story by understanding the characters' personalities 
and how each tile would influence the story, and choosing yourself how to evolve the two characters' story
through the tiles.

some tiles reveal enemies/monsters symbolizing personal demons.

the ruleset for story pieces is tricky.
pieces are motives. motives are generated according to characters in the current act.

piece types:

- motives
- attitudes/opinions
- relationships with other characters
- story items

pieces are driven by the level/act and environment.
story items drive different results.

a gun in act 1 may provide protection against an enemy tile,
if used by a certain character.

for another character, the same gun item may make "murder tiles" hot depending
on the act and other characters present, and previous tiles applied.

mechanism behind tile generation:
space partitioning : certain tiles are "hot" when nearby certain other tiles (story pieces)
they cluster.

random sampling: tiles for each type may be generated depending on a certain probability distribution.
for example, the log function determines how attitudes grow over time for a character, influencing
  next act tiles generated by a character.

setup:
at start, each character present in the act generates a variable but capped number of story tiles depending on
the player's previously assigned character <-> tiles.
these are randomly distributed in the grid, and like the memory game, the player does not know which is which.

Two characters only: a relationship. Can become romantic, murderous, enemies, friends, rivals, etc. About the 
complexity of Relationship Space possible through chaos / randomness and certain choices.

character design:

Arla
    Stubborn with her view of the world.

Jon
    Undecisive and confused.

references:
simple memory game
ff tactics
attack on titan
